now it came to pass when the king was
dwelling in his house and the Lord had
given him rest from all his enemies all
around that the king said to Nathan the
prophet see now I dwell in a house of
cedar but the Ark of God dwells inside
10 turns go do all that is in your heart
for the Lord is with you but it happened
that night that the word of the Lord
came to Nathan go and tell my servant
David thus says the Lord would you build
a house for me to dwell in for I have
not dwelt in a house since the time that
I brought the children of Israel up from
Egypt even to this day but have moved
about in a tent and in a tabernacle
wherever I have moved about with all the
children of Israel have I ever spoken a
word to anyone from the tribes of Israel
whom I commanded to Shepherd my people
Israel saying why have you not built me
a house of cedar now therefore thus you
shall say to my servant David thus says
the Lord of hosts I took you from the
sheepfold from following the Sheep to be
ruler over my people over Israel and I
have been with you wherever you have
gone and have cut off all your enemies
from before you and have made you a
great name
like the name of the great men who are
on the earth moreover I will appoint a
place for my people Israel and will
plant them that they may dwell in a
place of their own and move no more nor
shall the sons of wickedness oppress
them anymore as previously
since the time that I commanded judges
to be over my people Israel and have
caused you to rest from all your enemies
also the Lord tells you that he will
make you our house when your days are
fulfilled and you rest with your
father's I will set up your seed after
you who will come from your body and I
will establish his kingdom he shall
build a house for my name and I will
establish the throne of his kingdom
forever I will be his father and he
shall be my son
if he commits iniquity I will chasten
him with the rod of men and with the
blows of the sons of men but my mercy
shall not depart from him as I took it
from Saul whom I removed from before you
and your house and your kingdom shall be
established forever before you your
throne shall be established forever
according to all these words and
according to all this vision so Nathan
spoke to David then King David went in
and sat before the Lord Who am I Lord
God and what is my house that you have
brought me this far and yet this was a
small thing in your sight O Lord God and
you have also spoken of your servants
house for a great while to come is this
the manner of man or Lord God now what
more can David say to you for you Lord
God no your servant for your words sake
and according to your own heart you have
done all these great things to make your
servant know them
therefore you are great Oh Lord God for
there is none like you nor is there any
God besides you according to all that we
have heard with our ears and who is like
your people like Israel the one nation
on earth whom God went to redeem for
himself as a people to make for himself
a name and to do for yourself great and
awesome deeds for your land before your
people whom you redeemed for yourself
from Egypt the nations and their gods
for you have made your people Israel
your very own people forever and you
Lord have become their God now O Lord
God the word which you have spoken
concerning your servant and concerning
his house establish it forever
and do as you have said so let your name
be magnified forever saying the Lord of
Hosts is the God over Israel and let the
house of your servant David be
established before you for you O Lord of
hosts God of Israel have revealed this
to your servant saying I will build you
a house therefore your servant has found
it in his heart to pray this prayer to
you and now O Lord God you are God and
your words are true and you have
promised this goodness to your servant
now therefore let it please you to bless
the house of your servant that it may
continue before you forever for you O
Lord God have spoken it and with your
blessing let the house of your servant
be blessed for ever
[Music]
you